README.md, before:

# DexHand Python Interface

Python interface for controlling dexterous robotic hands over CANFD using ZLG USBCANFD adapters. Provides both direct control and ROS2 integration.

## Overview

This package provides:

- CANFD communication interface for DexHand hardware
- Joint-space control interface with feedback processing
- Built-in data logging and visualization tools
- ROS2 interface implementation
- Hardware testing utilities

## Prerequisites

- Linux environment
- Python 3.8+
- ZLG USBCANFD adapter (tested with USBCANFD-200U)
- ROS2 (optional, for ROS interface)

## Installation

1. Install the package:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

2. Configure USB permissions:
```bash
sudo ./tools/setup_usb_can.sh
```

The setup script will:
- Create a canbus group
- Add your user to the group
- Set up udev rules for the USBCANFD adapter
- Configure appropriate permissions

You may need to log out and back in for the changes to take effect.

## Usage Examples

### 1. Hardware Testing

Run hardware tests:

```bash
python tools/hardware_test/test_dexhand.py --hands right
```

This should move the hand through a series of predefined motions.

### 2. Interactive Testing

Launch interactive control interface:

```bash
python tools/hardware_test/test_dexhand_interactive.py --hands right
```

This provides an IPython shell with initialized hand objects and helper functions.

Example commands:
```
right_hand.move_joints(th_rot=30)  # Rotate thumb
right_hand.move_joints(ff_mcp=60, ff_dip=60)  # Curl index finger
right_hand.move_joints(ff_spr=20, control_mode=ControlMode.PROTECT_HALL_POSITION)  # Spread all fingers, with alternative control mode
right_hand.get_feedback()
right_hand.reset_joints()
right_hand.clear_errors()    # Clear all error states
```

You can explore the API with tab completion and help commands.


### 3. ROS2 Integration

```bash
# Start node with default config
python examples/ros2_demo/dexhand_ros2.py

# Test movements with an example publisher
python examples/ros2_demo/dexhand_ros2_test.py --hands right --cycle-time 3.0
```

### 4. Programming Interface

Example code:

```python
from pyzlg_dexhand import LeftDexHand, RightDexHand, ControlMode

# Initialize hand
hand = RightDexHand()
hand.init()

# Move thumb
hand.move_joints(
    th_rot=30,  # Thumb rotation (0-150 degrees)
    th_mcp=45,  # Thumb MCP flexion (0-90 degrees)
    th_dip=45,  # Thumb coupled distal flexion
    control_mode=ControlMode.CASCADED_PID
)

# Get feedback
feedback = hand.get_feedback()
print(f"Thumb angle: {feedback.joints['th_rot'].angle}")
print(f"Tactile force: {feedback.tactile['th'].normal_force}")
```

## Architecture

### Core Components

#### 1. ZCAN Layer (zcan.py)

- Raw CANFD frame handling
- Hardware initialization
- Error handling
- Message filtering

#### 2. Protocol Layer (dexhand_protocol/)

- Command encoding/decoding
- Message parsing
- Error detection
- Feedback processing

#### 3. Interface Layer (dexhand_interface.py)

- High-level control API
- Joint space mapping
- Feedback processing
- Error recovery

### Applications

The package includes example applications built using the core interface:

- ROS2 interface (examples/ros2_demo/)
- Hardware testing tools (tools/hardware_test/)
- Interactive testing shell

## Data Logging

Built-in logging for analysis and debugging:

```python
from pyzlg_dexhand import DexHandLogger

# Initialize logger
logger = DexHandLogger()

# Log commands and feedback
logger.log_command(command_type, joint_commands, control_mode, hand)
logger.log_feedback(feedback_data, hand)

# Generate analysis
logger.plot_session(show=True, save=True)
```

Logs include:
- Joint commands and feedback
- Tactile sensor data
- Error states
- Timing information

## Control Modes

Supported control modes:

- `ZERO_TORQUE` (0x00): Motors disabled
- `CURRENT` (0x11): Direct current control
- `SPEED` (0x22): Velocity control
- `HALL_POSITION` (0x33): Position control using hall sensors
- `CASCADED_PID` (0x44): Cascaded position/velocity control
- `PROTECT_HALL_POSITION` (0x55): Protected position control with limits

## Configuration

Configuration files in `config/`:

- `config.yaml`: Left/Right hand parameters, ROS2 node settings, and ZCAN configuration

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/improvement`)
3. Follow the existing code structure and documentation
4. Add appropriate error handling and logging
5. Update tests as needed
6. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE file for details.

Note: This software is provided as-is. While we strive to maintain compatibility with DexHand products, use this software at your own risk.

Commit message:

feat: Test DexHand ROS2 node with configuration file
- Delete `ros_node.yaml` file
- Modify code in `dexhand_ros2_test.py` to load configuration from a YAML file and use the values in `DexHandTestNode` instantiation
- Remove `argparse` related code and update configuration file path in `dexhand_ros2.py`
- Add comment in `README.md` suggesting changing Channel ID to match hardware setup
- Change value of `hands` to `['left']` and add `cycle_time` parameter with value of `3.0` in `config.yaml`

### BEGIN GIT COMMIT BEFORE AMEND

### END GIT COMMIT BEFORE AMEND

README.md, after:

# DexHand Python Interface

Python interface for controlling dexterous robotic hands over CANFD using ZLG USBCANFD adapters. Provides both direct control and ROS2 integration.

## Overview

This package provides:

- CANFD communication interface for DexHand hardware
- Joint-space control interface with feedback processing
- Built-in data logging and visualization tools
- ROS2 interface implementation
- Hardware testing utilities

## Prerequisites

- Linux environment
- Python 3.8+
- ZLG USBCANFD adapter (tested with USBCANFD-200U)
- ROS2 (optional, for ROS interface)

## Installation

1. Install the package:
```bash
pip install -e .
```

2. Configure USB permissions:
```bash
sudo ./tools/setup_usb_can.sh
```

The setup script will:
- Create a canbus group
- Add your user to the group
- Set up udev rules for the USBCANFD adapter
- Configure appropriate permissions

You may need to log out and back in for the changes to take effect.

## Usage Examples

### 1. Hardware Testing

Run hardware tests:

```bash
python tools/hardware_test/test_dexhand.py --hands right
```

This should move the hand through a series of predefined motions.

### 2. Interactive Testing

Launch interactive control interface:

```bash
python tools/hardware_test/test_dexhand_interactive.py --hands right
```

This provides an IPython shell with initialized hand objects and helper functions.

Example commands:
```
right_hand.move_joints(th_rot=30)  # Rotate thumb
right_hand.move_joints(ff_mcp=60, ff_dip=60)  # Curl index finger
right_hand.move_joints(ff_spr=20, control_mode=ControlMode.PROTECT_HALL_POSITION)  # Spread all fingers, with alternative control mode
right_hand.get_feedback()
right_hand.reset_joints()
right_hand.clear_errors()    # Clear all error states
```

You can explore the API with tab completion and help commands.


### 3. ROS2 Integration

```bash
# Start node with default config
python examples/ros2_demo/dexhand_ros2.py

# Test movements with an example publisher
python examples/ros2_demo/dexhand_ros2_test.py --hands right --cycle-time 3.0
```

### 4. Programming Interface

Example code:

```python
from pyzlg_dexhand import LeftDexHand, RightDexHand, ControlMode

# Initialize hand
hand = RightDexHand()
hand.init()

# Move thumb
hand.move_joints(
    th_rot=30,  # Thumb rotation (0-150 degrees)
    th_mcp=45,  # Thumb MCP flexion (0-90 degrees)
    th_dip=45,  # Thumb coupled distal flexion
    control_mode=ControlMode.CASCADED_PID
)

# Get feedback
feedback = hand.get_feedback()
print(f"Thumb angle: {feedback.joints['th_rot'].angle}")
print(f"Tactile force: {feedback.tactile['th'].normal_force}")
```

## Architecture

### Core Components

#### 1. ZCAN Layer (zcan.py)

- Raw CANFD frame handling
- Hardware initialization
- Error handling
- Message filtering

#### 2. Protocol Layer (dexhand_protocol/)

- Command encoding/decoding
- Message parsing
- Error detection
- Feedback processing

#### 3. Interface Layer (dexhand_interface.py)

- High-level control API
- Joint space mapping
- Feedback processing
- Error recovery

### Applications

The package includes example applications built using the core interface:

- ROS2 interface (examples/ros2_demo/)
- Hardware testing tools (tools/hardware_test/)
- Interactive testing shell

## Data Logging

Built-in logging for analysis and debugging:

```python
from pyzlg_dexhand import DexHandLogger

# Initialize logger
logger = DexHandLogger()

# Log commands and feedback
logger.log_command(command_type, joint_commands, control_mode, hand)
logger.log_feedback(feedback_data, hand)

# Generate analysis
logger.plot_session(show=True, save=True)
```

Logs include:
- Joint commands and feedback
- Tactile sensor data
- Error states
- Timing information

## Control Modes

Supported control modes:

- `ZERO_TORQUE` (0x00): Motors disabled
- `CURRENT` (0x11): Direct current control
- `SPEED` (0x22): Velocity control
- `HALL_POSITION` (0x33): Position control using hall sensors
- `CASCADED_PID` (0x44): Cascaded position/velocity control
- `PROTECT_HALL_POSITION` (0x55): Protected position control with limits

## Configuration

Configuration files in `config/`:

- `config.yaml`: Left/Right hand parameters, ROS2 node settings, and ZCAN configuration

> Please change the right Channel ID to match your hardware setup.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/improvement`)
3. Follow the existing code structure and documentation
4. Add appropriate error handling and logging
5. Update tests as needed
6. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE file for details.

Note: This software is provided as-is. While we strive to maintain compatibility with DexHand products, use this software at your own risk.
